Add upgrade notes for 2.11 (#1197)
linkerd/website: linkerd.io/content/2.11/tasks/upgrade.md

version. If you have any questions, feel free to raise them at the #linkerd2
channel in the [Linkerd slack](https://slack.linkerd.io/).

## Upgrade notice: stable-2.11.0

> The upgrade procedure for `stable-2.11.0` is the same as before. The new

Reviewer: I would remove the first two sentences and, if it's possible to do so concisely, suggest a way to prune the controller configuration options.

Author: No way that I know of to prune the config options but I'll have a look, just to be sure. Removed the first two lines.

version comes with fixes, improvements and new features, most notably support
for inbound policies. When upgrading, it is worth noting that the control plane
has been changed to have a smaller footprint. The `controller` pod has been
removed; consequently, all configuration options that previously applied to it
are no longer valid (e.g `publicAPIResources` and all of its nested fields).

Moreover, the destination pod will now have an additional `policy` container
that runs the new policy controller. New healthchecks have been added to the
CLI to help troubleshoot the state of Linkerd. If you are upgrading from

> Linkerd 2.10.0, 2.10.1, or 2.10.2, there are some additional breaking changes

Reviewer: Since we only officially allow upgrades from these releases, I think the "If ... " clause here can be removed.

in the 2.11.0 release that may affect you.

### Routing breaking changes

There are two breaking changes to be aware of when it comes to how traffic is
routed.

First, when the proxy runs in ingress mode (`config.linkerd.io/inject:

> ingress`), non-HTTP outbound traffic is no longer supported. To get around

Reviewer: I don't think "outbound" is widely understood so I would say "non-HTTP traffic to meshed pods" instead. You might also point out that in many cases, ingress mode is no longer necessary and it's worth revisiting the [ingress docs](https://linkerd.io/2.10/tasks/using-ingress/) before upgrading.

this, you will need to use the `config.linkerd.io/skip-outbound-ports`
annotation on your ingress controller pod.

Second, the proxy will no longer forward traffic to ports bound on localhost.
Previously, it was possible to have the proxy forward traffic to a service
bound only on the loopback interface (such as `localhost:8080`). Typically,
when a service listens only on localhost, it should not be accessible from the
outside world. In order to prevent ports from being accidentally exposed to
other pods in the cluster, the proxy will no longer forward to localhost, it

> will instead use the original address. This change should be reflected in your

Reviewer: This paragraph is a little repetitive.

Author: Will do a bit of work, it felt repetitive to me too as I was writing.

Author: Okay, I've re-worded this. I wanted to make it more concise and keep it simple, there might be room to simplify further. Included examples of what it means for a port to be bound on localhost, and what it means for a service to be bound on a public interface. This should now: inform what the change is, what needs to change, and why the change was necessary.

Let me know if there's anything we can do to improve this or make it more clear.

service configuration.

### Multicluster

In the multicluster extension, the nginx gateway deployment image has been

> replaced with a pause container. If you are currently running Linkerd 2.10.x

Reviewer: Is there a one-sentence description of the motivation for this breaking change?

Author: Yup, updated.

together with the multicluster extension, in addition to upgrading the control
plane and extension itself, you will also need to re-link all clusters. The
gateway probes now target a port on the proxy instead of the now removed nginx

> container.

Reviewer 2: Can you clarify that the upgrade won't result in downtime, but the link would need to be re-generated for `linkerd mc gateways` to properly report the status of the target clusters?

Author: Good point, updated.

Multicluster now supports `NodePort` type services for the gateway. To support
this change, the configuration options in the Helm values file are now grouped
under the `gateway` field. If you have installed the extension with other
options than the provided defaults, you will need to update your `values.yaml`
file to reflect this change in field grouping.

### Other changes

Besides the breaking changes described above, there are other minor changes to
be aware of when upgrading from `stable-2.10.x`:

- `PodSecurityPolicy` (PSP) resources are no longer installed by default as a
 result of their deprecation in Kubernetes v1.21 and above. The control plane
 and core extensions will now be shipped without PSPs; they can be enabled
 through a new install option `enablePSP: true`.
- `tcp_connection_duration_ms` metric has been removed.
- Opaque ports changes: `443` is no longer included in the default opaque ports
 list. Ports `4444`, `6379` and `9300` corresponding to Galera, Redis and
 ElasticSearch respectively (all server speak first protocols) have been added

>  to the default opaque ports list.

Reviewer 2: Note that these changes will overwrite any customization done to `proxy.opaquePorts`.
Also `proxyInit.ignoreOutboundPorts` received a new default that will overwrite custom values.

Author: Done. Let me know if it looks ok

Reviewer 2: LGTM :+1:

version. If you have any questions, feel free to raise them at the #linkerd2
channel in the [Linkerd slack](https://slack.linkerd.io/).

## Upgrade notice: stable-2.11.0

> When upgrading, it is worth noting that the control plane
> has been changed to have a smaller footprint. The `controller` pod has been
> removed; consequently, all configuration options that previously applied to it
> are no longer valid (e.g `publicAPIResources` and all of its nested fields).
> 
> Moreover, the destination pod will now have an additional `policy` container
> that runs the new policy controller. New healthchecks have been added to the
> CLI to help troubleshoot the state of Linkerd. There are some additional
> breaking changes in the 2.11.0 release that may affect you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two breaking changes in the 2.11.0 release: pods in `ingress` no
longer support non-HTTP traffic to meshed workloads; and the proxy no longer
forwards traffic to ports that are bound only to localhost. Additionally, users
of the multi-cluster extension will need to re-link their cluster after 
upgrading.

### Control plane changes

The `controller` pod has been removed from the control plane. All configuration
options that previously applied to it are no longer valid (e.g
`publicAPIResources` and all of its nested fields). Additionally, the
destination pod has a new `policy` container that runs the policy controller.
```

Reviewer: Just trying to put the important stuff at the top.

this change, the configuration options in the Helm values file are now grouped
under the `gateway` field. If you have installed the extension with other
options than the provided defaults, you will need to update your `values.yaml`
file to reflect this change in field grouping.

### Other changes

Besides the breaking changes described above, there are other minor changes to
be aware of when upgrading from `stable-2.10.x`:

- `PodSecurityPolicy` (PSP) resources are no longer installed by default as a
 result of their deprecation in Kubernetes v1.21 and above. The control plane
 and core extensions will now be shipped without PSPs; they can be enabled
 through a new install option `enablePSP: true`.
- `tcp_connection_duration_ms` metric has been removed.
- Opaque ports changes: `443` is no longer included in the default opaque ports
 list. Ports `4444`, `6379` and `9300` corresponding to Galera, Redis and
 ElasticSearch respectively (all server speak first protocols) have been added
 to the default opaque ports list. The default ignore inbound ports list has
 also been changed to include ports `4567` and `4568`. Note that when

>  upgrading, any customization done to `proxy.opaquePorts` or

Reviewer: I assume this is a Helm thing? If so, let's make that explicit. It sounds really scary otherwise.

Author: Yeah, it is related to Helm. After talking it through with @alpeb we decided to remove this note. By default the values will not be overridden. We also document how to handle values for upgrades. Users should have a clear idea on what to do.
